[pull] primary from flybywiresim:primary (#494)
Valastiri/fbw-userguide: docs/pilots-corner/a32nx-briefing/flight-deck/pedestal/console.md

# Flightstick and Tiller

---

[Back to Flight Deck](../index.md){ .md-button }

---

![Console Sidestick and Tiller](../../../assets/a32nx-briefing/console/lateral-console.png)

!!! note "API Documentation: [Sidestick](../../a32nx_api.md#side-stick)"

## Sidesticks

The sidesticks are the pilots' primary control for manual flight. 

They are springloaded and automatically return to the neutral position. They do not receive any feedback from the 

> control surfaces as the Airbus uses a flybywire systems without force feedback.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
control surfaces as Airbus use the fly-by-wire system without force feedback.
```

When the autopilot is engaged the sidsticks are locked in neutral position. 

If the pilot applies a force above a given threshold:

- The sidesticks unlock
- The autopilot disengages

> - The AUTO FLT AP OFF alert triggers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The AUTO FLT AP OFF alert triggers
```

Each sidestick has two controls:

- The Radio Push To Talk switch
- The sidestick pb, for autopilot disengagement, or sidestick priority

> At all times, only one flight crewmember should fly the aircraft. However, if both flight crewmembers use their sidesticks simultaneously, their orders are algebraically added. The flight control laws limit the combined order to the equivalent of the full deflection of one sidestick. In this case the two green SIDE STICK PRIORITY lights on the glareshield come on and "DUAL INPUT" voice message is activated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At all times, only one flight crewmember should fly the aircraft. However, if both flight crewmembers use their sidesticks simultaneously, their orders are algebraically added. The flight control laws limit the combined order to the equivalent of the full deflection of one sidestick. In this case, the two green SIDE STICK PRIORITY lights on the glareshield come on and "DUAL INPUT" voice message is activated.
```
